The Project Gutenberg EBook of Bartleby, The Scrivener, by Herman Melville

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Bartleby, The Scrivener
       A Story of Wall-Street

Author: Herman Melville

Release Date: February 23, 2004 [EBook #11231]
[Date last updated: April 29, 2005]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BARTLEBY, THE SCRIVENER ***




Produced by Steve J. Nelson and Clara T. Nelson




BARTLEBY, THE SCRIVENER.

A STORY OF WALL-STREET.

I am a rather elderly man.  The nature of my avocations for the last
thirty years has brought me into more than ordinary contact with what
would seem an interesting and somewhat singular set of men, of whom as
yet nothing that I know of has ever been written:--I mean the
law-copyists or scriveners.  I have known very many of them,
professionally and privately, and if I pleased, could relate divers
histories, at which good-natured gentlemen might smile, and sentimental
souls might weep.  But I waive the biographies of all other scriveners
for a few passages in the life of Bartleby, who was a scrivener of the
strangest I ever saw or heard of.  While of other law-copyists I might
write the complete life, of Bartleby nothing of that sort can be done.
I believe that no materials exist for a full and satisfactory biography
of this man.  It is an irreparable loss to literature.  Bartleby was one
of those beings of whom nothing is ascertainable, except from the
original sources, and in his case those are very small.  What my own
astonished eyes saw of Bartleby, _that_ is all I know of him, except,
indeed, one vague report which will appear in the sequel.
